README.md, before:

# MADAssistant Client SDK
Mobile Android Debugging Assistant.
This is the SDK for integration in client applications.

## Table of Contents
1. [What is MADAssistant](#what-is-madassistant)
2. [Repository App](#repository-app)
3. [Features](#features)
4. [Who is it for?](#who-is-it-for)
5. [Security](#security)
6. [Usage](#usage)
7. [Sample App](#sample-app)

## What is MADAssistant?
- An on-device solution for logging a variety of information from client apps.
- Aids in the debugging and auditing of client apps, by providing a repository and viewer for logs generated by the apps, on the device itself.
- Achieves this by pairing with the MADAssistant app, which serves as the repository, and viewer, for the logs.
- By providing a means to store and view these logs, it aims to provide diagnostic information to debug any issues that arise in a client app.

### Repository App
- This serves as repository and viewer for all the logs generated by the library.
- Provides a session-wise display of the logs
- All logs are stored only on the device and not sent anywhere
- Provides the option to mail a single log or an entire session via share
- Available at https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.evdayapps.madassistant.repository
#### Screenshots
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/client_list.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/device_info.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/dev_portal.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/session_list.png">
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/changelog_list.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/log_list_unfiltered_1.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/loglist_unfiltered_2.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/session_details_filtered.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/network_details.png">
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/stacktrace_0.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/stacktrace_1.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/stacktrace_2.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/analytics_details.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/Screenshot_20220408-213416.png">
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/auth_gen_2.png">


## Features
The library currently provides logging for the following types of events:
- Network Logs
- Analytics Calls
- Exceptions and Crashes
- Generics Logs

## Who is it for?
##### Product Owners
- Logging of analytics events and network calls aid in audit and debugging of issues
##### Testers
- Logging of network calls, analytics events, exceptions and crashes while testing aids in raising more detailed bug reports
##### Developers
- Enable developers to retrieve logs for a particular issue without having to replicate the issue on their end, which might be impossible in some cases.
##### End Users
- This library may even be integrated into production builds, to enable debugging of hard-to-reproduce issues happening on a client's device.


## Security
An auth-token based system that controls what logs the user may view based on:
- The user's installation identifier (a uuid generated by the MADAssistant app once per installation)
- An optional start and end time
- The logs accessible to the user (with fine-grained regex-based filters). This information is encrypted using a passphrase which needs to provided to this library on runtime, to decrypt. 
- All filtering is performed within the client library and then sent to the MADAssistant app

<img width="19%" alt="authtoken-generator-1" src="doc/Screenshot_20220408-213416.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/auth_gen_2.png">

NOTE: These logs are not uploaded to any server and will remain only on the user's device.


## Usage
- Add the jitpack repository to project build.gradle
  ```
  allprojects {
	repositories {
		...
		maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
	}
  }
  ```
- Add the library as a dependency
  ```
  implementation 'com.github.Evdayapps:madassistant-clientsdk:<latest-version>'
  ```
- Create an instance of MADAssistantClient
  ```
  val logUtils = object : Logger {
            override fun i(tag: String, message: String) {
                Log.i(tag, message)
            }

            override fun v(tag: String, message: String) {
                Log.v(tag, message)
            }

            override fun d(tag: String, message: String) {
                Log.d(tag, message)
            }

            override fun e(throwable: Throwable) {
                throwable.printStackTrace()
            }
        }

        madAssistantClient = MADAssistantClientImpl(
            applicationContext = applicationContext,
            passphrase = "<enter your passphrase here>",
            logger = logUtils,
            callback = object : MADAssistantClient.Callback {
                override fun onSessionStarted(sessionId: Long) {
                    Log.i("MADAssistant","Session Started")
                }

                override fun onSessionEnded(sessionId: Long) {}

                override fun onConnected() {
                    Log.i("MADAssistant","Connected")
                }

                override fun onDisconnected(code: Int, message: String) {}

            }
        )

        // Bind the client to the remote service
        madAssistantClient.connect()

        // Start a session
        madAssistantClient.startSession()

        // Test log
        madAssistantClient.logGenericLog(Log.INFO,"Test","Just a test")
  ```
- Log events using the appropriate method
  ```
  // For Exceptions
  fun logException(throwable: Throwable, message: String?, data: Map<String, Any?>?)
  
  // For Analytics
  fun logAnalyticsEvent(destination: String, eventName: String, data: Map<String, Any?>)
  
  // For logs that match android.util.Log
  fun logGenericLog(type: Int, tag: String, message: String, data: Map<String, Any?>?)

  // For network logs. 
  fun logNetworkCall(data: NetworkCallLogModel)
  Or use MADAssistantOkHttp3Interceptor as an interceptor in OkHttp3 setups
  ```
- Logging Crashes
  ```
  client.logCrashes()
  ```
  Alternately, crashes can be logged manually too using:
  ```
  client.logCrashReport(throwable: Throwable)
  ```
 
## Sample App
A sample client app is available in the testapp folder. The same will soon be available on the play store too

Commit message:

Added encrypted logs note in README and highlights

README.md, after:

# MADAssistant Client SDK
Mobile Android Debugging Assistant.
This is the SDK for integration in client applications.

## Table of Contents
1. [What is MADAssistant](#what-is-madassistant)
2. [Repository App](#repository-app)
3. [Features](#features)
4. [Who is it for?](#who-is-it-for)
5. [Security](#security)
6. [Usage](#usage)
7. [Sample App](#sample-app)

## What is MADAssistant?
- An on-device solution for logging a variety of information from client apps.
- Aids in the debugging and auditing of client apps, by providing a repository and viewer for logs generated by the apps, on the device itself.
- Achieves this by pairing with the MADAssistant app, which serves as the repository, and viewer, for the logs.
- By providing a means to store and view these logs, it aims to provide diagnostic information to debug any issues that arise in a client app.
- **Can be integrated into release builds with complete information security, owing to the authtoken generator**

### Repository App
- This serves as repository and viewer for all the logs generated by the library.
- Provides a session-wise display of the logs
- All logs are stored only on the device and not sent anywhere
- Provides the option to mail a single log or an entire session via share
- Available at https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.evdayapps.madassistant.repository
#### Screenshots
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/client_list.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/device_info.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/dev_portal.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/session_list.png">
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/changelog_list.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/log_list_unfiltered_1.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/loglist_unfiltered_2.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/session_details_filtered.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/network_details.png">
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/stacktrace_0.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/stacktrace_1.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/stacktrace_2.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/analytics_details.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/Screenshot_20220408-213416.png">
<img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/auth_gen_2.png">


## Features
The library currently provides logging for the following types of events:
- Network Logs
- Analytics Calls
- Exceptions and Crashes
- Generics Logs

## Who is it for?
##### Product Owners
- Logging of analytics events and network calls aid in audit and debugging of issues
##### Testers
- Logging of network calls, analytics events, exceptions and crashes while testing aids in raising more detailed bug reports
##### Developers
- Enable developers to retrieve logs for a particular issue without having to replicate the issue on their end, which might be impossible in some cases.
##### End Users
- This library may even be integrated into production builds, to enable debugging of hard-to-reproduce issues happening on a client's device.


## Security
An auth-token based system that controls what logs the user may view based on:
- The user's installation identifier (a uuid generated by the MADAssistant app once per installation)
- An optional start and end time
- The logs accessible to the user (with fine-grained regex-based filters). This information is encrypted using a passphrase which needs to provided to this library on runtime, to decrypt. 
- All filtering is performed within the client library and then sent to the MADAssistant app
- **Logs may also be encrypted, preventing the user from viewing the logs, but able to still share them with the developer. This enables usage of the library in release builds, without the risk of leaking information**

<img width="19%" alt="authtoken-generator-1" src="doc/Screenshot_20220408-213416.png"> <img width="19%" alt="portfolio_view" src="doc/auth_gen_2.png">

NOTE: These logs are not uploaded to any server and will remain only on the user's device.


## Usage
- Add the jitpack repository to project build.gradle
  ```
  allprojects {
	repositories {
		...
		maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
	}
  }
  ```
- Add the library as a dependency
  ```
  implementation 'com.github.Evdayapps:madassistant-clientsdk:<latest-version>'
  ```
- Create an instance of MADAssistantClient
  ```
  val logUtils = object : Logger {
            override fun i(tag: String, message: String) {
                Log.i(tag, message)
            }

            override fun v(tag: String, message: String) {
                Log.v(tag, message)
            }

            override fun d(tag: String, message: String) {
                Log.d(tag, message)
            }

            override fun e(throwable: Throwable) {
                throwable.printStackTrace()
            }
        }

        madAssistantClient = MADAssistantClientImpl(
            applicationContext = applicationContext,
            passphrase = "<enter your passphrase here>",
            logger = logUtils,
            callback = object : MADAssistantClient.Callback {
                override fun onSessionStarted(sessionId: Long) {
                    Log.i("MADAssistant","Session Started")
                }

                override fun onSessionEnded(sessionId: Long) {}

                override fun onConnected() {
                    Log.i("MADAssistant","Connected")
                }

                override fun onDisconnected(code: Int, message: String) {}

            }
        )

        // Bind the client to the remote service
        madAssistantClient.connect()

        // Start a session
        madAssistantClient.startSession()

        // Test log
        madAssistantClient.logGenericLog(Log.INFO,"Test","Just a test")
  ```
- Log events using the appropriate method
  ```
  // For Exceptions
  fun logException(throwable: Throwable, message: String?, data: Map<String, Any?>?)
  
  // For Analytics
  fun logAnalyticsEvent(destination: String, eventName: String, data: Map<String, Any?>)
  
  // For logs that match android.util.Log
  fun logGenericLog(type: Int, tag: String, message: String, data: Map<String, Any?>?)

  // For network logs. 
  fun logNetworkCall(data: NetworkCallLogModel)
  Or use MADAssistantOkHttp3Interceptor as an interceptor in OkHttp3 setups
  ```
- Logging Crashes
  ```
  client.logCrashes()
  ```
  Alternately, crashes can be logged manually too using:
  ```
  client.logCrashReport(throwable: Throwable)
  ```
 
## Sample App
A sample client app is available in the testapp folder. The same will soon be available on the play store too
